README.md, before:

# Prota

An implementation of NewtonScript

I wrote this in 1997. It got to this point before I got distracted by other
things. :) I originally called it "Proto" and got about halfway through changing
it to "Prota".

It implements

* The basic NewtonScript object model
* A NewtonScript interpreter
* A package stream reader (no writer)
* A printer

It does *not* implement

* A NewtonScript compiler (I used NTK to compile the initial objects and the
interpreter test programs, which is why you'll see NTK files here.)
* An object store
* A UI system
* Any other Newton technology :)

I used the Boehm conservative garbage collection library for memory management
rather than the error-prone `RefVar` system used for precise GC in the Newton
OS. There might be a nicer way to do this in C++ now, but I haven't written any
serious C++ in this century. :)

This was last compiled in MS Visual C++ in 1997, so there's no working build
on any modern computer. In fact, Macs were still on PowerPC when this was last
compiled, so the Boehm code certainly needs an update before it will work.

BTW, this is pretty close to what the original NewtonScript source code looks
like. My style didn't change much in six years.

Commit message:

Make it run in 2017
Added instructions for getting a more recent BDW GC and building.
It successfully runs whatever random thing is in play.stm.

README.md, after:

# Prota

An implementation of NewtonScript

I wrote this in 1997. It got to this point before I got distracted by other
things. :) I originally called it "Proto" and got about halfway through changing
it to "Prota".

It implements

* The basic NewtonScript object model
* A NewtonScript interpreter (missing floating point and a few other niceties)
* A package stream reader (no writer)
* A printer

It does *not* implement

* A NewtonScript compiler (I used NTK to compile the initial objects and the
interpreter test programs, which is why you'll see NTK files here.)
* An object store
* A UI system
* Any other Newton technology :)

I used the Boehm conservative garbage collection library for memory management
rather than the error-prone `RefVar` system used for precise GC in the Newton
OS. There might be a nicer way to do this in C++ now, but I haven't written any
serious C++ in this century. :)

This was last compiled in MS Visual C++ in 1997. I have it working on OS X (clang)
in 2017. At least, it compiles and does *something*. :)

BTW, this is pretty close to what the original NewtonScript source code looks
like. My style didn't change much in six years.

## Build instructions

    # required once
    git clone https://github.com/ivmai/bdwgc.git
    cd bdwgc
    git clone git://github.com/ivmai/libatomic_ops.git
    make -f Makefile.direct ABI_FLAG=-m32
    cd ..

    # then
    make
    cd test
    ../build/nstest
